# 1:1

## Three tips for reports to improve one-on-ones

Having better one-on-ones (1:1s) is usually left up to the manager. There are loads of articles and books written with the manager in mind. But focusing exclusively on only one of the attendees drastically reduces how much improvement the meeting can have. In this post I’ll focus on ways that the team member (report) can improve a 1:1.

What does “improve” mean in relation to 1:1s?

Your 1:1s have improved if you get more value out of the meetings. A 1:1 can be “bad” in that you received criticism during the meeting. However it can still be “valuable” in that the feedback helped you be better at your job. Similarly a 1:1 can be “good” in that you and your manager had a nice chat. However a 1:1 like that might not be “valuable” in that you and your manager might already have a pretty solid relationship. (Yes, I know having “just a chat” can be valuable from time to time, but if that’s all you’re doing it’s unlikely that the relationship is valuable to either of your jobs.)

The tips below set a decent baseline. Many of you are probably already doing all of these things - that’s great! Some of you will find following through with just these three tips to be enough for now - that’s great too!

I’ll add some more posts later on. These should continue to increase how much value you get from your 1:1s, and will be a little more difficult than the tips below.

### Tips
Ordered by how much each one will increase the value of your meeting.

1. **Actually have the meeting.** Think back over the past six months, have you and your manager met regularly? Occasional misses are generally ok (people get sick and go on holidays), but if the meeting is skipped more than 25% of the time then it’s a problem.


2. **Talk.** If your TL is asking questions they want the answers! Answer with something more than just yes or no. If you need to, ask for some time to think over what your answer will be and respond at a later date (if this happens a lot ask them to share their questions in advance where possible). Awkward silences signal that you probably don’t want to be there - and it’s just as awkward for your manager as for you. Where possible bring something to contribute to the conversation as well, which brings us to…

3. **Prepare for your 1:1.** Before your next 1:1 take some time to think about what you want to talk about. This doesn’t need to be a big ordeal, you can start with just 5 minutes. As you get more comfortable with it, you can take notes on what you’d like to discuss any time between meetings. Many people have a 1:1 page to jot down notes about what you’d like to discuss in your next meeting. Bonus points if you share this page with your manager.

Prompts

- Do you want some feedback? Ideally ask for feedback on something specific rather than an open ended “do you have any feedback for me?” Yes, asking for general feedback is ok too, but you’ll probably get better quality feedback if you ask for it on a particular topic. You’ll get even better feedback if you let your boss know you’ll be asking for that feedback in advance!

- Would you like some advice? Maybe you’ve had a difficult personal interaction, perhaps your work took longer to get reviewed than you would have liked, possibly you’re uncertain about how to get started with your next piece of work.

- What’s something you’ve done well? 1:1s are a great time to highlight your accomplishments.

- Do you have some insights into your team? What do you see that your manager might have missed? Maybe someone took the time to explain a new concept to you, perhaps you’re concerned about friction between team members, possibly your recent retrospective got you thinking about a new process you’d like to try out.

- How are things progressing on your project? Are you happy with the quality you’re producing or do you need more time to better plan the work? What process might need changing?

- What can your manager change to help you and the team? Your manager probably doesn’t get a lot of feedback from their reports - a 1:1 can be a good time give them some.


## Resources
https://www.workfront.com/atiim
https://officevibe.com/blog/guide-to-better-one-on-ones
https://www.themuse.com/advice/how-to-have-oneonones-that-actuaslly-matter
https://hello.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/~lbain/pages/534640764/How+to+start+with+a+new+team
https://hello.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/~sjebeile/blog/2017/11/26/218189119/What+Makes+a+Trusting+People+Leader

## Books
https://www.booktopia.com.au/radical-candor-kim-scott/book/9781509845385.html
https://www.booktopia.com.au/management-4ed-stephen-p-robbins/book/9781488616549.html
https://fellow.app/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/TheArtOfMeetingWithYourManager_eBook_Fellow.pdf(A good ebook to read: How to leverage the power of one-on-one meetings to achieve career hyper-growth and feel confident at work)
